eco car is a three-year competition in
which 16 North American college teams
were challenged to improve the emissions
and fuel economy of a compact GM
crossover vehicle while retaining all of
its utility safety and performance teams
were allowed to design their own
drivetrain architectures and chosen
technologies include full electrics
plug-in hybrids fuel cells and extended
range electric vehicles every team has
taken a different approach and the
approaches are unique not only for their
talent sets but also for their
backgrounds so some teams have chosen
architectures that may be a more
complicated but can have higher paybacks
or benefits and others that are perhaps
less challenging but could offer either
near-term rewards or you know a better
risk/reward relationship after a year of
modeling and simulation teams were given
their vehicles for year 2 and I've
worked ever since on implementing their
designs but the students also had to
think real world in terms of packaging
their components fit and finish
drivability and consumer acceptance
headline sponsor General Motors provided
the vehicles as well as mentoring
support for each team and allow the
competition to mimic its global vehicle
design process by which GM develops its
own prototype vehicles they also hosted
all 16 teams for this year's finals at
their desert proving grounds near Yuma
Arizona all these kids are top-notch
engineers already even before they've
graduated but what we're doing is giving
them experience with the latest tools
and techniques plus a very long term
disciplined process that we give to them
in their school so they can have a
three-year experience doing something
really big other sponsors donated
technical support and the advanced
hardware such as battery packs
generators and control systems needed to
make their designs a reality
no two cars turned out alight and many
innovative ideas for battery packs
emissions treatment and engine controls
have evolved from the competition the US
Department of Energy pitched in their
own expertise and organizational muscle
with engineers from the Argonne National
Lab overseeing the competition and
utilizing their well to wills analysis
model to assess each team's
environmental impact judging is
conducted after each year of the
competition measuring progress in terms
of emissions economy and component
integration as well as pure performance
no matter what their results the
benefits for the students in terms of
knowledge and expertise has been
incredible so today some of the vehicles
that haven't made a past safety tech
inspection yet but they're working on it
but the collaboration that comes
together from having the 16 schools
together and working together that
learning experience with representatives
of industry and our sponsors really
allows them the opportunity to move
forward even through difficulties after
a grueling week of testing Mississippi
State University claimed top honors for
2010 their biodiesel extended-range
electric vehicle achieved fuel economy
equivalent to 118 miles per gallon while
also achieving the fastest acceleration
and autocross times and the cleanest
tailpipe emissions congratulations also
go to Virginia Tech for second place and
Penn State in third position but the eco
car challenge doesn't in here year three
of the competition is when teams must
show full component integration and a
near production-ready vehicle
lessons learned in this classroom will
benefit all of us as we look towards a
clean driving future we're producing the
next generation of Automotive Engineers
and this is a very important time right
now in the automotive industry they're
reinventing the automobile and they need
engineers out in the industry that come
in with that passion for this kind of
technology and have this kind of
knowledge and hands-on experience so as
the vehicles become more electrified
that becomes even more and more
important so that's not something you
can learn in a textbook
you